Amazon Confirms: This Cyber Monday was the Single Biggest Shopping Day Ever, Surpassing Prime Day for the Most Products Ordered Worldwide
Cyber Monday was the biggest day on record for small businesses
Over the Turkey 5 – the five days from Thanksgiving to Cyber Monday – customers ordered nearly 140 million items from small businesses worldwide
Amazon today announced that Cyber Monday was the single biggest shopping day worldwide in the company’s history, and the biggest day ever for small businesses and entrepreneurs selling on Amazon.
“Amazon customers shopped at record levels during the Turkey 5, ordering hundreds of millions of products from toys to fashion to electronics and Amazon devices,” stated Jeff Wilke, CEO Worldwide Consumer. 
“Customers ordered nearly 140 million items from small businesses alone and this is just the beginning of the holiday season. 
We’ll continue to offer incredible deals and a vast selection of unique products, with fast and free shipping options all season long, and every day.”
Throughout the Turkey 5, Amazon customers worldwide ordered at record levels:
Customers ordered hundreds of millions of products on Amazon from Thanksgiving through Cyber Monday.
Cyber Monday 2017 is now the single biggest shopping day in Amazon’s history, surpassing Prime Day 2017.
Amazon App orders on Cyber Monday 2017 increased more than 50 percent, worldwide year over year.
On Cyber Monday, the best-selling item was the Echo Dot.
With new lower prices on turkeys and Prime members receiving an even deeper discount this year, Whole Foods Market in the U.S. broke its all-time record of turkeys sold during the Thanksgiving season.
“Cyber Monday was our biggest holiday sales day ever, with thousands of unit sales, and a 30 percent increase in sales over Cyber Monday 2016,” said Kelly Fedio, Founder of One Savvy Life, based in Redondo Beach, Calif.
“AncestryDNA was one of the top selling products on Amazon during Cyber Monday, selling 700 percent more kits in one day, than the entire holiday period last year,” said Vineet Mehra, Executive Vice President & Chief Marketing Officer of Ancestry, based in San Francisco.
“Cyber Monday was our biggest day ever! We sold thousands of items and saw a more than 500 percent increase in Cyber Monday sales year over year,” said Jurgen Nebelung, VP of Ecommerce of Tea Forte, based in Concord, Mass.
All Amazon customers can choose from more than one hundred million items that are eligible for free shipping this holiday and all year long. 
This includes eligible orders of $25 or more shipped by Amazon, as well as free shipping offers from the millions of small business and entrepreneurs selling on Amazon. 
For customers who prefer to pick up their packages when it’s convenient for them, Amazon Locker is a safe and secure way to receive Amazon packages. 
Available in more than 50 cities across the U.S., Amazon Lockers are strategically located near offices, major convenience stores, grocery stores, apartment buildings and malls across the country. 
Prime is designed to make your life better every day including the convenience of fast, free shipping and great entertainment. 
Prime members can shop thousands of Lightning Deals with 30-minute early access and, with the Amazon Prime credit card, members will earn even bigger rewards this holiday season. 
Members can also enjoy Free Two-Day Shipping with Amazon Prime, as well as Prime FREE One-Day Shipping and Prime FREE Same-Day Delivery on more than one million items in orders of $35 or more available to members in over 5,000 cities and towns. 
And, with Prime Now, Prime Members in more than 30 U.S. cities can benefit from one-and-two hour delivery. 
In addition, Prime members in 37 cities and surrounding areas across the U.S. can access Amazon Key, the new service that radically improves the convenience of receiving deliveries. 
Amazon Key will allow Prime members to have eligible packages securely delivered inside their homes without having to be there.
Amazon is guided by four principles: customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, commitment to operational excellence, and long-term thinking. 
Customer reviews, 1-Click shopping, personalized recommendations, Prime, Fulfillment by Amazon, AWS, Kindle Direct Publishing, Kindle, Fire tablets, Fire TV, Amazon Echo, and Alexa are some of the products and services pioneered by Amazon.