DIAMOND GEEZER Prince Harry proposed to Meghan with ring made from Diana’s diamonds after secretly planning for six months
The sparkler has now been revealed, as the loved-up duo posed for their first official photo as an engaged couple this afternoon
THE Prince secretly spent six months designing the engagement ring, The Sun can reveal.
Harry came up with the plans for the spectacular ring which features a gold band and massive square-cut diamond from Botswana in the centre, surrounded by two stones from Princess Diana’s personal jewellery collection.
He sourced the diamond from southern Africa, designed it himself and secretly commissioned it to be made by Cleave and Company, Court Jewellers and Medallists to the Queen — and was consulted on every aspect of its creation.
The Botswana sourcing is of personal significance. 
Harry has visited the country many times since he was a child — and it’s where he and Meghan went for their first holiday.
Harry said: “The ring is obviously yellow gold because that’s her favourite and the main stone itself I sourced from Botswana and the little diamonds either side are from my mother’s jewellery collection to make sure that she’s with us on this crazy journey together.”
Expert David Allen, of 77 Diamonds, said: “A ring of this size and quality would start at around £50,000 but with the use of the late Princess Diana’s diamonds as side stones, this ring, like Kate’s before it, is of inestimable worth.”
TheDiamondStore.co.uk estimated the ring would have cost Harry £199,475.
The British public had been speculating about their relationship for months, with many wondering which ring Harry, 33, would use for the proposal.
It has now been revealed, as the loved-up duo posed for their first official photo as an engaged couple this afternoon.
The three-gem sparkler contains two diamonds from Princess Diana's personal collection set in a gold band. 
The large central stone is from Botswana, where the couple went on safari in September.
It's reported that 36-year-old Meghan's ring was fashioned out of diamonds that were once worn by Harry's mum as part of a brooch.
According to US Weekly, Prince Harry commissioned the ring to be made out of his late mother's jewels, after other family jewels were used by his elder brother William.
In 2010, the Duke of Cambridge used his mum's sapphire ring for his proposal to Kate Middleton.
Harry and his fiancee have been dating for just over a year, with Kensington Palace confirming the pairing on November 8 2016.
In February, Harry and Meghan were spotted hand-in-hand for the first time,
Over the past year, their relationship has flourished, with the Suits actress meeting Her Majesty The Queen. 